Hi everyone.
In this video we will learn the importance of exceptions hierarchy for multiple accept statements.
When using multiple accept statements, it's important to respect the exception hierarchy in Python.
This means that if you catch a base exception class such as exception, you should catch more specific
exceptions before it.
If you write an accept statement of a more specific class after the base class, the block won't be
executed.
Here.
In this example, we have the try block.
After that, in the first level we define value error and in the second level we define exception first
level value error which is more specific exception.
And after that exception which is the base of all exceptions.
In this example, the value error exception is called first.
If this code raises any other exception that is derived from exception the code in the second accept
block will execute.
We have another example.
We have the try block and three accept block.
The first we define type error which is a specific class exception.
Second value error which is also a specific exception.
And after that a general exception the base of all exception which is more general.
In this example, if the code in the try block raises a type error, the accept block type error will
be executed.
If the code in the try block raise a value error, the second accept block will be executed, and if
the code raises any other exception that is derived from exception, the code in the third accept block
will execute.
Let's go to the example two.
If we place the base exception as the first accept the block, it will prevent the rest from being ever
executed.
In this example, any exception raised in the try block will be catched in the first level.
The second and the third level will never, ever execute it.
Always in the output we have the first message.
An error occurred.
The message from the first accept.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some examples.
Let's start by the example one.
We have the try block which can raise two types of exception value error and zero division error.
When we define our accept block, we start by the most specific exception, which is value error and
zero division error, and after that the class exception which is more general.
The base of all exceptions.
Let's execute the code.
And raise a value error.
In the input I will add a literal which cannot be converted to an integer because it's not a base ten
exception is captured in the first level.
Oops, that was not a valid number because we raise a value error.
Let's go to the second case.
In the input I add zero.
Zero Division error is raised.
We catch the exception.
In the second accept block error you can divide by zero.
Division by zero In the first case, we catch the exception in the value error when we cannot convert
a literal to end.
In the second case, we raise zero division error and we catch this exception in the second except block.
Let's go and do a third case.
For example, I try to concatenate the float with a string.
In this case we will raise a type error, which means it not be captured in the first block and not
even in the second block.
It will be captured in the exception block in the third except block.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
Let's add as input ten.
The exception here it captured in the third except block.
An expected error occurred in supported operand type plus operator float and steer.
The result here is 1.0.
We cannot concatenate with a string.
It throws a type error.
To get more information about the origin of error in case of value error, the message it will be that
was not a valid number.
In case of zero division error, it will be.
You can divide by zero, but if the try block raise any other exception, it will be captured in the
last level.
The general exception which is the base of all exception.
But for example, let's update the code and start by the class exception.
Let's execute the three cases from the begin.
Again.
In the first case I add literal, which cannot be converted to end.
The first case raise a value error, but it is captured in the first level.
In an expected error occurred.
An invalid literal for int.
We don't have more specific details for this exception.
Only the first accept block was executed.
In the second case, we try to raise zero division error.
In the input I add zero.
Always it's captured in the first level.
In expected error occurred division by zero.
The third accept zero division error will never ever executed Because this exception is captured in
the first level.
Let's do the third case.
I add as input.
Then the result it will be 1.0 plus the string, which raise a type error, unsupported operand type,
float and str.
Any exception will be raised in the try block will be captured in the first level.
Let's go to the second example.
In the second example, we have a default exception except which is at the last level.
Let's try to change as the first level.
Python.
In this case throw a syntax error.
Why?
Because default accept It must be last default, except will be always in the last level.
We start by specific exception and after that we add the default except.
You need to remember that because it will have some question in the certification like that they will
add except at the first level.
What will be the result in this example.
It will be a syntax error.
But when we have for example except exception.
This is not recommended but it's not through a syntax error.
Be sure and remember the difference between general exception and default exception.
When we start By a general exception, it's not recommended because any exception will be captured in
the first level.
But when we start by the default except block, this will throw a syntax error, except should be always
at the end.
And in the last of all other except block.
Let's go to the example three to remember the else and the finally block else will be executed when
we don't have any exception, and the finally block will be executed regardless if there is an exception
or not.
You can try that alone with different cases.
For example, in the first case try to raise exception and in the second case try to execute the code
without any exception to see the else and the finally block how will be executed.
And that's it for this video.